---
layout: post
title: "Information Management and Product Planning"
subtitle: "Lessons in design and development concepts"
background: '/img/posts/01.jpg'
---

## Information Management
Information management (IM) basically pertains to the action of collecting, storing, managing and maintaining information. In business this can include analogue information stored on paper and books or digital data. It is important to have a robust information management system in place so that information is secure, accessible by those that need it and protected from those that should not access it.

### How information management works
In order to have a successful IM system a business needs to put in place policies and procedures outlining what information is collected, how it is stored, who has access to it and how the information is used. In small businesses it might be the business owner or office manager who creates these policies. They would also ensures documents are filed appropriately in a manual 
system. However, larger organisations will have a staff member or team with expertise in this area as well as a custom built IM system. 

### Storage of information
An important part of IM is how the information is shared with those that need access. This includes staff and stakeholders as well as devices used by the company such as websites, servers, applications and computers. This is important as information needs to be both secure but also accessible. This is 
important as organisations store information around staff details, product development etc. All of which is sensitive information which needs to be stored securely but also utilised.

### Information management uses and benefits for businesses
A good IM system can aid a business by making work more efficient. However, the main advantage of IM is the data it gives a business about their successes, weaknesses and customers. This can improve decision making as well as employee performance. 
### Information management in software development
With all this in mind IM is similar to an agile method of management used in software development. This methodology provides guidelines to ensure information is shared effectively across the team. This improves the quality of the work taking place, empowers workers and speeds up the work.

## Product Planning
OKR’s utilise IM to get a team to work towards a shared goal. OKR stands for objectives and key results. Objectives are the goals the project is working towards. These objectives need to be driven by customer needs and feedback. They should also align with overall business mission of the business. Key results measures the teams progress towards the objectives. 

In product planning a team will work through a product hypothesis to check whether the product is viable. This is a continuous process where a product manager develops product ideas which they believe will meet the users needs. These hypotheses will be tested and potentially modified before being validated or rejected.